# The Beginner's Guide to BattleTabs! 

*19/06/2022*

I officially suck at sticking to schedules. Maybe I'm not old/bald enough... Being young is a gift. To all the young people out there, I say to you: it won't last forever. Enjoy it while you still can. 

Alright, today I decided that I have no experience in Tetris so I am unqualified to make proper Tetris guides. 

So what else am I experienced in? 

Oh yeah, that other game. 

BattleTabs! is a completely new take on the classic board game, Battleships/Battle of the Pacific/whatever variant they keep making even though the gameplay is exactly the same as every other game 

Battleships is, to be honest, really not that fun. I mean, it's not bad, but it's a really bad design. You see, There is absolutely no skill involved in Battleships. It's basically completely luck, athough there are some versions that are better (if you hit, you can take another turn). But Battleships is very monotonous, with basically everything about luck. There's only a small amount of logic involved, and it's not even that much, considering that you'll have the exact same ships as your opponent. The strategy never changes. 

But BattleTabs is different. And one fundamental idea gave birth to a game that's been downloaded opvedr 1.2 million times. 

The introduction of sonar meant that now, you had more logic, more skill. It meant you had to think about the numbers. 

Sonar works by sending sound waves out and seeing how long it takes from the signal being sent to it being reflected back by some unknown object. Sonar by itself can tell you that there's something that's x metres away, but it doesn't give accuracy. That's the idea behind sonar in BattleTabs. One sonar often isn't enough, unless it finds something that's right next to the tile you targeted. But multiple sonars can give a very good idea of how your opponent's ships are placed. 

But that still isn't enough. A while after BattleTabs v2 (which added sonar, as the devs thinkof v1 as just Battleships) came out, they added abilties and fleets. Now, each ship has a unique ability, and ships are organised into a fleet of four ships. there are lots of different shaped ships too, adding another layer of complexity. 

And so we have today's BattleTabs, which has an ingame currency, a paid subscription that gives bonus customisation as well as a sort of early access thing where they get to use ships before they are released to everyone else, and they've also made Sonar an ability in itself. Each abilty has a cooldown, so you can't just spam the powerful ones. At its core, it's still Battleships, but now it involves far more skill and thought than the old board game. 

So I'm going to assume you've joined, played through the tutorial and you know how abilities work. The first fleet you can use is Battle Attacker, branded as a balanced all-rounder, although it really is trash. It contains four units, just like every fleet: Minisub, Sea Monster, Sailboat and Longboat. Sea Monster, also known as Nessie, is really bad. Don't use it. Minisub is by far the best ship, with a cooldown of two turns. Minisub is just Sonar, but don't let this fool you 
