# My boring and irrelevant opinion on different openers part 1
*7/06/2022*

Apparently I can't even fufil my promise for a week. 

Ok 

## List of good openers

- TKI 3

Literally, the only actually good opener is TKI. It's not an opener, it's a stacking technique you can do in the first bag. 

Time to go through each opener separately. 

Since there are countless openers, I'm only to list the ones that always have good followups (so no Muffspin).

I'll do it in a tier list format 

S = TKI 
A = Great 
B = Good 
C = Okay 
D = Bad 

I've also got + and - within each tier (except S because it's only got one)

Ok

I don't have lots of time so this gonna be a few parts 

### TKI 3: S
#### Pros
- TKI is the best opener, forever. 
- All three major variations have great followups 
- Naturally goes into 7-2 
- Flexible 
#### Cons 
- Why does it have a "3" at the end lol 
- Only con is that you can't do it with every bag 

### SDPC: A- 
#### Pros 
- SDPC (also SingleYou) is a very popular opener that is probably overused. 
- If you can pull it off it'll kill your opponent as long as you are under S rank in TETR.IO
- Best looping opener, no doubt about that 
- Goes naturally into DPC 
- Good followups if you don't PC (Imperial Cross, TST, Trinity)
#### Cons 
- Half of all SDPC users crutch on it 
- Only sends a TSS in first bag, so your opponent can kill any chance of PC by using a TSD opener 
- Lots of soft dropping required 

### SDPC: A- 
#### Pros 
- SDPC (also SingleYou) is a very popular opener that is probably overused. 
- If you can pull it off it'll kill your opponent as long as you are under S rank in TETR.IO
- Best looping opener, no doubt about that 
- Goes naturally into DPC 
- Good followups if you don't PC (Imperial Cross, TST, Trinity)
#### Cons 
- Half of all SDPC users crutch on it 
- Only sends a TSS in first bag, so your opponent can kill any chance of PC by using a TSD opener 
- Lots of soft dropping required 

### Stickspin: A-
#### Pros 
- Stickspin is a good opener. People hate it though, because there are lots of players who crutch on it. 
- Sends a lot of lines, the same as TKI without spiking 
- Great counterspike opener
- Good followups 
#### Cons 
- Crutch 
- Quite a few softdrops needed, although not as much as SDPC 
- Doesn't have lots of flexibility 
- SDPC is better 

### Hachispin: A+ 
#### Pros 
- Hachispin is a great opener which I don't use 
- Great continuations 
- PC funny 
- Second bad Triple defeats SDPC 
- Flexible 
#### Cons 
- Only sends a TSS in first bag 
- Can't downstack until you clear the Triple 
- Second bag can cause problems sometimes (OLI)

